Your full name, and what about where you were born,
and when, and how many years, and how you finally
got to Texas A&M. Noel Parsons, my middle initials
are. Which you never use? Yeah, I do. I use it, but I
don't spell it out.
I was born and raised in Oklahoma, went to the
University of Oklahoma, and got a commission in
the Air Force through ROTC there. Graduated in 64,
went right into the Air Force for four years, and
realized I didn't want to make the Air Force my
career. You were a pilot, weren't you? No, I was on
flying status, but I was an intelligence officer,
and there was a power to navigate. I did some
couriers
for this
too. I used to fly into Berlin from Frankfurt to
visit our side in Berlin.
asked me to carry the mail. Oh, it was the line that
you gave in the mail to people? Did you know that was
going on? Oh, yeah. So where were you stationed
most of the time? I was three years in Frankfurt, on
my air base, and met my wife while I was over there.
Oh, did you? She was an American student. From
where? She was from Houston. What school did she go
to? Oh, she was going to a German art school. Oh, she
was going to a German art school, okay. Okay, she
wasn't going to, you know...
No, no, she was going
to the technical art school in Oakland on our
side of the community. And she was working in
Frankfurt, too. We met at the Poshy Ball in the East
Ball. But at any rate, I decided I didn't want to
make the Air Force a career, so I decided to go back
to school, use my GI benefits, and went back to the
University of Oklahoma and started the master's
program in journalism. And I didn't like
newspapers very much, and I was talking to my
advisor
one day and told him I really don't know what I want
to do with the journalism degree. He said, why
don't you go into book publishing? I said, hey,
about that, I've been interested in books. He
said, yeah, but how do you get into it? He told me
about the fellowship program at the University of
Oklahoma Press. So I tried out all of that and got my
way. I've been in the publishing business ever
since. We
had an internship
at the journalism school, but it's not the same
sort of program. This was a fellowship, it was
paid, and we got experience in several different
areas. We concentrated in conference. And there
were two of us in here. And that program had been
initiated by Savoy Lockerville. Way
back
in
the early 50s, Jack Kyle, who was director of UT
Press, was one of the graduates of the program.
Director of the University of Washington Press.
He retired recently and was a graduate. Who was the
director of Alchemist Press? Ed Shaw. Savoy,
Lawtonville,
just retired a year
or two years ago.
So that's S-A-V-O-Y? S-A-V-O-Y.
I-N-V-I-N-V-I-N-V-I-N-V-I-N-V-I-N-V-I-N-V-I-N-V-I-N-V-I-N-V-I-N-V-I-N-V-I-N-V-I-N-V-I-N-V-I-N
He died recently. Retired in
60, I guess it was 67. That's a good year for a
homeowner. Yes. Well, Lawtonville was a big
director and a good publisher. They built their
American Indian series, and a lot of the Western
exploration books that they did. They built
Altamont. So you were there for about a year? I was
there a year, in that program, and then I got a job in
Detroit, in the
Dearborn, actually. Professional
organization, society for manufacturing
engineers. I worked there two and a half years, and
they closed their program. for the Society of
Manufacturing Engineers? There's a chapter
here. And you're doing the editing? The
professional association, you're doing the
editing? Right. We had a books department.
We published books on manufacturing
engineering, and product engineering, and we
edited the Manufacturing Engineers Handbook,
which was published in October of last year. It
was an interesting experience because there were
three of us and we did a little bit of everything.
And then they decided though to close down the book
publishing on Rich. They gave us a month's notice.
Actually, December the 2nd, they let us know that
as of the end of the year we were out of there. Oh, no,
no. Well, that's a typical Detroit moment. And
they gave us a month's notice and said it was on the
way. So I started looking immediately for the
person in question. And how did you get into it?
Why? Why? Because I wanted to get back into it. I
really liked scholarly publishing as opposed to
trade publishing, all the kind of professional
publishing. And I didn't want to go to New York. I
didn't really want to live in New York. I
was a small town boy. I just didn't feel
comfortable doing something like that. I
put out my resume to everybody in the university
press directory. The only good nipple I got was
from Dick Winworth at the University of Illinois,
but he was associate director. You just have to
know him real well. He's a nice guy. I saw him just
the other day in San Francisco. He must be getting
ready to retire. Who's he with now, you know? Oh,
he's director of Bill and Marla.
Student director of Bill and Marla. He became
director on Sunday before Sunday. But, uh, he, I
went, uh, I
went to Champaign and interviewed with him and
then they hired me and I started work there in
Marshall since 73. And then the summer of 75 I went
to an AAUP meeting in Brown County, Indiana. who
met with Dick, who's now finally camped out at
State Park. He went to the meeting out of his
trailer. Is that right? Yeah. And Mary Stith, who
was the managing editor, editor-in-chief at
Midwest and both former press, who had managed the
fellowship program, who told me that Frank
Wardlaw, who I'd always heard of, the great
legendary Frank Wardlaw, was starting a new
press, the Texas A&M. And
he was looking for an associate editor. And so she
recommended that I talk to him. And she introduced
me to him. And he said, well, come on up to my room in
such and such a time. We'll have a drink and we'll
talk. And so I went to his room and he gave me scotch,
which I was drinking at the time, and a great big
cigar. I didn't know how to turn down the cigars.
So I sat there and puffed on that cigar, and we
talked for a good while. And he told me what he was
doing at 8 AM, and that he was trying to collect a
group of people that would staff a small but active
press. But he wanted to start the press out full
grown. And we would begin publishing about 15 or 16
books a year and continue it that way. He wanted
people who were experienced and who
invited
me to come take a look at College Station. So that
was in June. The next month then Chris and I loaded
Claire into the car and we drove to Houston to see
her appearance and on the way we stopped at College
Station. We stayed in the Aggie suite, the guest
quarters in the house, and Frank and Rosemary
showed us all around. And we drove down to Illinois
in an air-conditioned car. And I dropped out of
Texas in July. Oh, yeah. And poor little Claire was
two years old. Well, she was three years old. In
case I use the name wrong. Chris is C-H-K-R-I-R.
C-L-A-R. Okay, so
you come into town and you stay at the press
quarters. Yeah, we went right to Frank
Roseberry's house, the old press
building. And they showed us around the town.
At the same time, in June, at the meeting, Ed Shaw
had told me that
he
was looking for a competitor to replace Mary Stitt
for his retirement. A&M,
I talked to Frank and told him that I had a law firm in
New York and Frank said, well, you know, we can, the
pay was about the same here on jobs, but Frank said
that he would see what he could do about getting
money to help with my living expenses. Ed had told
me that he couldn't, he didn't have the money to
help us pay Frank Miller. He was having to work the
slave wages in Illinois for two and a half years. We
didn't have any money, so. Yeah, I know. We were, we
were his church guys at the time, and I just really
couldn't afford a move. And, uh, so Frank then, uh,
When I
came
to College Station in July, Frank told
me that he had to take me to Vegas. And I found out
later that he had gone to the Association of Former
Students. They had provided him. And so I told him
that I would take the job that we would need was to
start September 1st. And
so then we went on to Houston and visited Liz's
grandparents and her sister who was living there
at the time. Her parents were still living in
Europe. And then we came back through Ballin
Station on our way back from the homeowner. He
stayed
with Frank and Rose Maria Kinn for a couple of days,
and we went to try to find a department. And it was a
bad time of the year to try to find a department.
Late July. Yeah. Oh,
and also during that visit, Frank took me over to
meet Jack Lutz. It was quite impressive. He took me
to the President, even though he wasn't in the
President, actually had the time to visit him and
visit with a young editor. Really, you know, that
was just being hired as a copywriter. So that was
quite impressive. Yeah,
a lot of people
have mentioned,
I was wondering
how Wayne was getting the whole perspective of it,
but Wayne was very positive about the film. He was
very interested in the film, and he was interested
in the people that Frank was talking about,
because he asked me about the stories. I told him I
was going to the University of Illinois. Of
course, my hair was not color-linked and I had a
handlebar mustache. And so he thought of the fact
that Aggies were very clean-cut and didn't use
marijuana or any other drugs, that we were trying
to keep the campus straight. And just by
implication, get your haircuts up. Good thing you
didn't interview with butter, eh? Yeah,
that's right. Taking you to the body shop. So I
began to get the idea that this was quite a bit of
work in Illinois. But we liked it.
It was vibrant and active. There was so much going
on. Even in the middle of the summer, it was a good
place. It was really moving. You had not really
been here before. You've been in Houston for a few
years. I'd never been to College Station before.
I'd been all around with Houston and Austin. And
there was a college friend of mine who lived in
Houston, and he used to go to Galveston and Houston
for summer break, but he never stopped at the bus
station. How about the... Did
you know any
of the people who were involved
in that? No, I didn't. I did write all of that
documentation. And, uh, there's a, a debt market
that came to visit that first night we came in July.
Frank
Hedlund hit Margaret and later Myra Hinton. I
can't remember if Diane was there, but I doubt it.
So it was, I think it was just Margaret and Ray that
hit us. No, Buck was not there at that time. I didn't
meet him until after
I started working. Guy asked me earlier, what do
you remember as one of your happiest times or
conditions or something while you were there?
Okay,
so when you come back through, how was that? You
visited a couple more days. Finally found an
apartment. Finally found an apartment and a place
to lay toast. We decided to come in mid-August,
made our deposit, and we went down to the city. Then
we went back to Willamette, New York, and then we
closed it down right there in New York. At the same
time,
I called Ed Shaw and told him he was coming here. I
sometimes
regretted that. I didn't feel it was a great
opportunity to learn from one of the top people in
the business. I
think
it's
good I came
to Texas, but, you know, I think we have an idea. But
when we came back from Houston to stop and find an
apartment, when we got back, Frank had talked to, I
remember very distinctly, that he was feeling a
little poorly, but he was trying to help us in his
most important way. And we were standing in the
hallway of their apartment, and I was talking to
him, and all of a sudden he turned white as a sheet.
and
just fell over the mountain just like a tree. He
just fainted dead away. I tried to catch him, but he
was a big man. Oh, yeah. And I kind of caught his
shoulder as he was
going down, but it was too late. And he just fell
down on his back. And I ran and got those for him. By
the time we got back to him,
he was coming to me. I did the same thing. Yeah. It's
pretty funny when a big man falls flat. But I
remember that very clearly. I think I did it. He was
a patient most of his life. He had malaria, he had
tuberculosis, been in hospital for a year. He had
heart problems at all times.
You never know what's going on in the face. In the
face, why is he doing it? In the face activity or in
the style of life? The style of life. Now, when you
come to college and start work, what kind of work do
you do? How would you describe
the level of activity or who do you
work with? Well, we were doing 16 books. Margaret
and I were doing all of the copy editing ourselves
and working with the authors after. Frank
was doing most of the acquisitions. It was a very
close-knit group. We had weekly meetings. We'd
all get together and discuss every project we had
going. Frank would tell us about what he felt was
coming along in the future. And so we were
all working
very closely with all of the projects and all of the
books that were published. And working closely
with Ray and the design and the layout. And I
started September 1st, and on September 2nd, the
first two books came in. Chip and Skip. Elizabeth,
John, and the others were great. So we
had the reason to celebrate the rest of the crew,
even though I hadn't worked with them for years. So
they made me feel right at home. I didn't want to
starve. What
was your first major project? I think the first
book I worked on was my first book in the Zachary
Sponsored Economics series. It's a Tony Kopp's
book, and I can't think of the title of the book yet.
Zachary
did not want his name associated with him. Neither
did this guy, Hugh, who we have a photo series. My
question is, I have not used any. I use pews and
equipment, so if you really wanted to dig, you'd
find out who sent the winches out there. I don't
know anything about pews, so he was pretty
successful. Yeah, I know. Which pew was that? It
wasn't. Marion. No, no, no. P-E-W. P-E-W. Frank
got it all with Garbo, too. And that's why he said, I
don't know a lot of P's. They're always P-E-G-H's.
And I never seen a P as in church before. It was
really cute, that cute letter. Yeah. And for the
same exact reason, I don't know whether Bozo's
name, I don't know. I'll have to look them up. Let's
see, I don't know. Somewhere I've got my old blog
book. I suspect now they wouldn't mind having it in
there.
I like to do that. Excuse me. That's okay. I didn't
know. I don't know about you. I knew that... It's a
Monte series, but Monte gave $10,000. He gave
$20,000. Is that right? Which is interesting. At
least he really was anonymous. Yeah. Tierboden, I
believe, was counting the honchos in the tsunami
series, but I think he wasn't. He had been on the
first... the first board. And
I guess he
helped try to raise that money to make this
project. Anything else other than the cops? Well,
I was trying
to find a law firm. Oh, okay. I saw it just the other
day. I'm not going to pull that out. with Vince
Branson's book. As I understand it, it was being
developed by the Agricultural Experiment
Station. So we transferred it over here. And
Frank, in fact, paid them $10,000 for their
previous services. They had done everything up to
the point of giving it back. And so to supplement
the prices. Do
you remember any details about that acquisition?
I mean, was it offered? No, that was before I came.
That was one of the first things. Well, that, you
know, regardless of, you know, the rules. Yeah. I
don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't
know. Okay.
Okay. So, let me ask you, in the early months there,
or whatever year, did you encounter, in your
relationship
to the press, a particular faculty or former
students who seemed to be intensely involved in
press activities? Oh yeah, such as? It was Haskell
Monroe who was the head of the press committee, and
Haskell was very active
and very willing to
do his costuming at the press, and this too,
talking about projects. had
a real diplomatic uh at the time we were really
searching for books to fill out that 15 or 16 a year
we had to scramble and other people Maggie's
and former students' class, they were very eager
to give us an idea of STEM. That's...
After
all these
years, we're really just down the drain. We've
done a few books over the years in architecture,
but it says that we've never been able to raise any
money. Publications, for example, they always go
down the drain. Now with Malcolm Clark, Cheryl
Sears, we're going to be able to get more and more,
you know, closer to our next project. with the
school here in Houston.
When
I was at Illinois, they probably picked up the
title. And
after I got here, he said, oh, I turned around back.
that I decided
that the stories in that title were
a little too strong. Was there an audience that you
were trying to reach? There is. In fact, I was
thinking about that.